Jenkins Code of Conduct update (#3477)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/project/conduct.adoc

an individual is officially representing the community in public spaces.
Examples of representing our community include using an official e-mail address,
posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed
representative at an online or offline event.

=== Community Spaces

==== Source Control

All resources and conversations within the Jenkins GitHub organizations are subject to the code of conduct.
It includes but not limited to:

* Organizations
** link:https://github.com/jenkinsci[jenkinsci]
** link:https://github.com/jenkinsci-cert[jenkinsci-cert]
** link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra[jenkins-infra]
** link:https://github.com/stapler[stapler]
* Commits
* Pull requests
* Issues
* Wikis

Technical criticism is always appreciated. Keep it positive and constructive. Don't merely decry the current state of affairs. Offer and solicit suggestions as to how things may be improved.
(courtesy of the link:https://golang.org/conduct#values[Go Lang Code of Conduct])

==== Websites

Everything hosted under link:https://jenkins.io/[jenkins.io], link:https://jenkins-ci.org/[jenkins-ci.org] and their sub-domains such as:

> * link:https://jenkins.io[jenkins.io]

Author: i do not think so. In 2020 "www" prefix is being hidden in modern browsers

* link:https://issues.jenkins-ci.org/[issues.jenkins-ci.org]
* link:https://wiki.jenkins.io/[wiki.jenkins.io]

==== Mailing lists

All link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists] hosted on Google Groups and other platforms.

==== Chats

> * All chats documented on the link:/chat[this page], e.g. IRC channels: `#jenkins`, `#jenkins-meeting`, `#jenkins-infra`, etc.

Reviewer: Clarify phrasing?
```suggestion
* All chats documented on the link:/chat[chat page], e.g. IRC channels: `#jenkins`, `#jenkins-meeting`, `#jenkins-infra`, etc.
```

* Gitter channels within the link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/home[https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/] space
* Jenkins chats hosted by Linux Foundation and its subsidiaries including Continuous Delivery Foundation 

==== Events

* link:/projects/jam/[Jenkins Area Meetups]
* link:/events/online-meetup[Jenkins Online Meetup]
* Events where Jenkins is officially being represented (e.g.
  link:https://fosdem.org[FOSDEM], link:https://socallinuxexpo.org/[SCaLE])

=== Other Jenkins Communities

Other Jenkins groups (such as conferences, meetups, and other unofficial forums) and local communities are encouraged to adopt this Code of Conduct.
Those groups must provide their own moderators and/or reporting system.

== Reporting

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the link:/project/board[Jenkins board].
If you feel somebody has breached this code, please send an email with the

> relevant information (links, etc) to `jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com`.

Reviewer: Was this intentionally not a mailto link, even though CDF uses a mailto link in their contributor covenant?

I'm OK with it either way.  I like the highlighting gained by making it code font for greater visibililty.
```suggestion
relevant information (links, etc) to link:mailto:jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com[`jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com`].
```

Reviewer 2: Mail to links are often not recommended  these days for use as many people don’t have their system mail client setup.

Author: Yes, I would prefer to not do it

This email list is only readable by the link:/project/board[Governance Board] members.
The board may not have all of the necessary context and history,
so it's better to describe the issue thoroughly.
All complaints will be reviewed
and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and
appropriate to the circumstances.

If you believe one of the board members has violated the code of conduct
above, please email one of the other members of the Governance Board with the
details (their emails are visible on the
link:/project/board[Governance
Board] page).

If the desired resolution cannot be reached on the Jenkins community level,

> an issue can be escalated to the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF) by contacting the project team at `conduct@cd.foundation`.

Reviewer: Same question about a mailto link, since CDF uses a mailto link in their markdown.
```suggestion
an issue can be escalated to the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF) by contacting the project team at mailto:conduct@cd.foundation[`conduct@cd.foundation`].
```

standards, including sustained inappropriate behavior,  harassment of an
individual, or aggression toward or disparagement of classes of individuals.

**Consequence**: A permanent ban from any sort of public interaction within
the community.
// Addition to Contributor Covenant 2.0 begins here
The individual will be expelled from the Jenkins community.
After 12 months they may appeal to the board for the ban to be lifted.

The ban will include but is not limited to:

*  Bans from Jenkins community link:/chat[chats]
*  Deletion of their LDAP account
*  Blocking their GitHub username from the Jenkins GitHub organizations
*  Banning their email address from Jenkins mailing lists
*  Banning them from social media and meetup groups
*  Banning them from participating in Community-organized events

== Attribution

This Code of Conduct is adapted from the Contributor Covenant,
version 2.0, available at
https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/0/code_of_conduct.html.

Community Impact Guidelines were inspired by link:https://github.com/mozilla/diversity[Mozilla's code of conduct
enforcement ladder].

== Version history

* **Jul TODO, 2020** - Major update of the Code of Conduct.

>   It was approved the project governance meeting, see the meeting notes link:TODO[here].

Reviewer: Include the link to the governance meeting and a minor rephrasing of the sentence.
```suggestion
  It was approved in the project governance meeting, see the meeting notes link:https://docs.google.com/document/d/11Nr8QpqYgBiZjORplL_3Zkwys2qK1vEvK-NYyYa4rzg/edit#bookmark=id.yr5dfh4k94u6[here].
```

Author: Nope. It will be finally approved at the next meeting (hopefully)

The board may not have all of the necessary context and history,
so it's better to be more verbose than less verbose about such matters.
All complaints will be reviewed
and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and
appropriate to the circumstances.

If you believe one of the members of the board has violated the code of conduct
above, please email one of the other members of the Governance Board with the
details (their emails are visible on the
link:/project/board[Governance
Board] page).

If the desired resolution cannot be reached on the Jenkins community level,
an issue can be escalated to the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF) by contacting the project team at `conduct@cd.foundation`.
See the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[CDF Code of Conduct] for more information about reporting and enforcement in this case.

== Handling of violations

Community leaders will follow these Community Impact Guidelines in determining
the consequences for any action they deem in violation of this Code of Conduct.

Depending on the severity of the violations the board may elect to take one of the following paths.

> The resolution of violations will be done in private and the affected people will be notified but there will not be a public announcement of the resolution.

Author: II am not 100% sure about keeping it as is. We may be forced to publicly respond in some cases, so I would rather render it as a general and recommended practice, not a binding rule.

Reviewer 3: I'm inclined to not insert this paragraph in keep closer to the original Contributor Covenant. Sometimes public comments or announcements are necessary. The Contributor Covenant says it sufficiently.

Reviewer: I'm aligned with @jeffret-b that the Contributor Covenant is sufficient.  I think we can remove this paragraph and still retain the desired flexibility for (optional) public announcement of the resolution of a violation if the board felt that were needed.

I like the proposed wording that the Jenkins community prefers private resolution of violations.  I think that is a preference that is good for the community.  I don't think that preference needs to be stated in the document.

:toc:

> This document defines the Code of Conduct and Reporting/Handling processes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This document defines the Code of Conduct along with Reporting and Handling processes
```

for the Jenkins community. For more details about our cultural values,

> goals, philosophies, structure and so on, please consult our

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
goals, philosophies, and structure, please consult our
```

link:/project/governance[Governance Document]. 

== Our Pledge

> // TODO(oleg_nenashev): First paragraph is an adapted paragraph of the Contributor Covenant 1.3.0. Should we keep it or remove it?

Reviewer 3: We should remove it. It's fairly duplicative and doesn't serve much value with the revised Contributor Covenant. It's better to start with the start of the improved Covenant.

Author: I will probably move some bits up so that get displayed before the "Pledge" section. Agreed with removing and keeping pristine Contributor Covenant entry

or harmful.

Community leaders (Jenkins Board members, service administrators, plugin and other maintainers)
have the right and responsibility to remove, edit, or reject
comments, commits, code, wiki edits, issues, and other contributions that are
not aligned to this Code of Conduct, and will communicate reasons for moderation
decisions when appropriate.

== Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all <<Community Spaces>>, and also applies when
an individual is officially representing the community in public spaces.
Examples of representing our community include using an official e-mail address,
posting via an official social media account, or acting as an appointed
representative at an online or offline event.

=== Community Spaces

==== Source Control

All resources and conversations within the Jenkins GitHub organizations are subject to the code of conduct.
It includes but not limited to:

* Organizations
** link:https://github.com/jenkinsci[jenkinsci]
** link:https://github.com/jenkinsci-cert[jenkinsci-cert]
** link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra[jenkins-infra]
** link:https://github.com/stapler[stapler]
* Commits
* Pull requests
* Issues
* Wikis

> Technical criticism is always appreciated, but avoid destructive behavior such as unconstructive criticism: don't merely decry the current state of affairs; offer—or at least solicit—suggestions as to how things may be improved.

Reviewer 3: We can improve readability by breaking this up a bit.
```suggestion
Technical criticism is always appreciated. Keep it positive and constructive. Don't merely decry the current state of affairs. Offer and solicit suggestions as to how things may be improved.
```

* Gitter channels within the link:https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/home[https://gitter.im/jenkinsci/] space
* Jenkins chats hosted by Linux Foundation and its subsidiaries including Continuous Delivery Foundation 

==== Events

* link:/projects/jam/[Jenkins Area Meetups]
* link:/events/online-meetup[Jenkins Online Meetup]
* Events where Jenkins is officially being represented (e.g.
  link:https://fosdem.org[FOSDEM], link:https://socallinuxexpo.org/[SCaLE])

=== Other Jenkins Communities

Other Jenkins groups (such as conferences, meetups, and other unofficial forums) and local communities are encouraged to adopt this Code of Conduct.
Those groups must provide their own moderators and/or reporting system.

== Reporting

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be
reported by contacting the link:/project/board[Jenkins board].
If you feel somebody has breached this code, please send an email with the
relevant information (links, etc) to `jenkinsci-board@googlegroups.com`.
This email list is only readable by the link:/project/board[Governance Board] members.
The board may not have all of the necessary context and history,

> so it's better to be more verbose than less verbose about such matters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
so it's better to describe the issue thoroughly.
```

All complaints will be reviewed
and investigated and will result in a response that is deemed necessary and
appropriate to the circumstances.

> If you believe one of the members of the board has violated the code of conduct

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you believe one of the board members has violated the code of conduct
```

above, please email one of the other members of the Governance Board with the
details (their emails are visible on the
link:/project/board[Governance
Board] page).

If the desired resolution cannot be reached on the Jenkins community level,
an issue can be escalated to the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF) by contacting the project team at `conduct@cd.foundation`.
See the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[CDF Code of Conduct] for more information about reporting and enforcement in this case.

== Handling of violations

Community leaders will follow these Community Impact Guidelines in determining
the consequences for any action they deem in violation of this Code of Conduct.

Depending on the severity of the violations the board may elect to take one of the following paths.

> The resolution of violations will be done in private.
> And the affected people will be notified but there will not be a public announcement.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The resolution of violations will be done in private and the affected people will be notified but there will not be a public announcement of the resolution.
```

Author: II am still not 100% sure about keeping it as is. We may be forced to publicly respond in some cases, so I would rather render it as a general and recommended practice, not a binding rule.

Reviewer 4: That's fine, it's just generally not a good idea to start a sentence with "And" if its just a continuation of the previous sentence, so that was all my change was about.

Author: Right. Will move to a separate discussion

unprofessional or unwelcome in the community.

**Consequence**: A private, written warning from community leaders, providing
clarity around the nature of the violation and an explanation of why the
behavior was inappropriate. A public apology may be requested.

=== 2. Warning

If the severity of the violation is serious enough,
the board will issue an official warning to the community member.

**Community Impact**: A violation through a single incident or series
of actions.

**Consequence**: A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No
interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with
those enforcing the Code of Conduct, for a specified period of time. This
includes avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels
like social media. Violating these terms may lead to a _Probation_ or _Ban_.

=== 3. Probation

// oleg_nenashev: It merges statements of "3. Temporary ban" in Contributor Covenant 2.0
// + original statements of the Probation period in Jenkins CoC 2016

If the severity of the violation is serious or reprimands are not effective,
the board will ask the community member to "take a break" 
and to step

> away from the community for a period of time/

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
away from the community for a period of time.
```
